.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH kobo 1 "May 2023"
.SH NAME
txt2epub \- a utility for converting text e-books to EPUB documents 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2epub 
.RB [options]
.B {text_files...}
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fItxt2epub\fR converts one or more text files, assumed to be in
ASCII or UTF-8 format, into an EPUB document. 


.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
.B txt2epub\ -o\ dickens_great_expectations.epub
.B --author\ "Dickens,\ Charles"\ --title\ "Great\ Expectations" 
.B chapter01.txt\ chapter02.txt\ chapter03.txt\ ...

Convert files chapter01.txt, etc., into an EPUB document, setting the 
author and title meta-data appropriately. Each file will receive an
entry in the table of contents. 

.B txt2epub\ sample.txt

Convert sample.txt into an EPUB document sample.epub, using default
values for the document meta-data. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -c,\-\-cover-image \ {filename}
Specifies a file to be used as the cover image. If supplied, this image
will form the first page of the book. EPUB guidelines suggest a 
JPEG or PNG image of size 590x750 pixels 
.LP

.TP
.BI -a,\-\-author \ {name}
Set the author in the EPUB meta-data. Both the display author and the
filing ("sort-as") author are set to the same value. If none is given,
the author name is set to "unknown"
.LP

.TP
.BI \-\-loglevel \ {0-3}
For debugging purposes, sets the logging verbosity from 0 (the default
-- serious errors only) to 3
.LP

.TP
.BI \-f,\-\-first-lines
Treat the first line in each input file as a chapter heading. This heading
will be used in the table-of-contents, and the line will also be hightlighted
in the EPUB output as a heading
.LP


.TP
.BI \-\-ignore-indent
Do not treat a line that begins with whitespace as a paragraph break
.LP

.TP
.BI \-\-ignore-markdown
Do not respect Markdown-style formatting like *bold*
.LP

.TP
.BI \-l,\-\-language \ {language_code}
Sets the document's two-character language code. The default is "en", 
English
.LP

.TP
.BI \-o,\-\-output-file \ {filename}
Sets the filename for the EPUB output. If none is specified, and if there
is only one input file, then the output will be to a file with the same
name in the same directory, with extension ".epub" 
.LP

.TP
.BI \-\-para-indent
Inserts a style definition into the generated code to encourage
ebook readers to separate paragraphs by a simple indent, rather than
a blank line.
.LP

.TP
.BI \-r,\-\-remove-pagenum
Try to remove spurious page numbers from text files. This can be useful
when converting documents that were originally inteded from print,
and have been converted from PDF or PostScript. A page number
is a line that contains only whitespace and digits. This option is
not enabled by default, because there are situations where such
text might not be a page number -- there is no easy way to be sure
.LP

.TP
.BI \-t,\-\-title \ {text}
Sets the document's overall title  If none is given, the title will be
derived from the output document's filename
.LP

.TP
.BI \-x,\-\-extra-para 
Inserts an extra paragraph break after each input line. This can be useful
for text documents that have no paragraph indication at all, just
very long lines one after another. In other cases it will usually
produce unhappy results 
.LP


.TP
.BI -v,\-\-version
Display version and copyright infomation
.LP

.SH NOTES

.SS Character encoding 

EPUB documents are required to be encoded in UTF-8. This is the default
on most Linux and Unix platforms, but there are many encoding standards
in use. A strict ASCII file can be treated as UTF-8 without modification,
but the same cannot be said for the many 8-bit "extended ASCII" 
character encodings that are in use.
\fItxt2epub\fR will not attempt to change, or even guess, an input file's
encoding. If it is not UTF-8, results will be variable. On Linux,
the  
\fIiconv\fR 
utility can be used to change character encoding. For example, to 
convert from ISO8859-1:

.nf
.B iconv\ -f\ iso8859-1\ -t\ utf8\ {input_file}\ >\ {output_file} 

.SS Table of contents 

\fItxt2epub\fR does not write a visible contents page in
the EPUB document. However, it does write an internal "NCX" 
table-of-contents, that most readers support (and, in many cases,
insist on). Each text file specified on the command line gets
an entry in the table-of-contents, even if there is only one
input file. 

.SS Input formatting

Input is assumed to consists of lines or aribtrary length, with
paragraph breaks signalled either by a blank line, or an indent
of three or more whitespace characters. Because some documents that
have blank-line paragraphs have lines that accidentally start
with spaces, the use of indents as paragraph breaks can be
turned off (--ignore-indents)

By default, 
\fItxt2epub\fR respects simple Markdown-style formatting marks,
like _italic_ and *bold*. This behaviour can be turned off
using --ignore-markdown. 

.SH BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No check is made that the input file really is text, or even that 
any of the input files actually exist. Any input file that does not
exist results in a book chapter whose text is an error message.

Users should be wary of using constructions like "book*.txt" to include
many files. While Linux shells usually present files in alphanumeric order,
subtleties like locale and collation settings can modify this.


.SH AUTHOR AND LEGAL
\fItxt2epub\fR
is maintained by Kevin Boone, and is open source under the
terms of the GNU Public Licence, version 3.0. 
There is no warranty
of any kind.


.SH FURTHER INFORMATION 
For more details, see 
http://kevinboone.net/README_txt2epub.html.


.\" end of file
